docs/index.markdown, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 10
has_children: false
---

# Parsing PDFs to Build AI Datasets for Science

[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/pdf-parsing-for-science){:target="repo" .btn .btn-primary .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 .mr-2 .no-glyph}
[The AI Alliance](https://thealliance.ai){:target="ai-alliance" .btn .btn-primary .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 .mr-2 .no-glyph} 

| **Authors**     | [Foundation Models and Datasets](https://thealliance.ai/focus-areas/foundation-models){:target="ai-alliance-wg"} (See the [Contributors]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing/#contributors)) |
| **Last Update** | V0.1.0, 2025-05-09 |

> **Tip:** Use the search box at the top of this page to find specific content.

Welcome to the **The AI Alliance** project: **Parsing PDFs to Build AI Datasets for Science**. 

Effective applications of AI to specialized domains, such as scientific research, require customized datasets that can be used to train and tune models, build applications with _agents_ and the RAG (retrieval-augmented generation) pattern, etc.

However, much of the world's scientific knowledge is contained in PDFs, which can be challenging to parse for automation purposes. Text extraction is not too difficult, but extracting useful information from diagrams and tables is harder.

Recent advancements in tools such as [Docling](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/){:target="docling"} have enabled automated information extraction from PDF and other document types possible as never before. Our project is building the tools to do this extraction at scale to create new domain-specific datasets, starting with datasets for scientific disciplines.

These datasets will be hosted in the AI Alliance [Hugging Face organization](https://huggingface.co/aialliance){:target="hf-aia"} and they will be part of the Open Trusted Data Initiative [catalog](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/open-trusted-data-initiative/catalog/){:target="otdi"} of datasets.

Please join us! See our [contributing]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing) page for details.

> **TODO:** This is a work-in-progress website. More information coming soon.


### Version History

| Version  | Date       |
| :------- | :--------- |
| V0.1.0   | 2025-05-09 |

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

Commit message:

Added that Math-PDF will be the first target dataset to parse.
Signed-off-by: Dean Wampler <dean.wampler@ibm.com>

docs/index.markdown, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 10
has_children: false
---

# Parsing PDFs to Build AI Datasets for Science

[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/pdf-parsing-for-science){:target="repo" .btn .btn-primary .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 .mr-2 .no-glyph}
[The AI Alliance](https://thealliance.ai){:target="ai-alliance" .btn .btn-primary .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 .mr-2 .no-glyph} 

| **Authors**     | [Foundation Models and Datasets](https://thealliance.ai/focus-areas/foundation-models){:target="ai-alliance-wg"} (See the [Contributors]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing/#contributors)) |
| **Last Update** | V0.1.0, 2025-05-09 |

> **Tip:** Use the search box at the top of this page to find specific content.

Welcome to the **The AI Alliance** project: **Parsing PDFs to Build AI Datasets for Science**. 

Effective applications of AI to specialized domains, such as scientific research, require customized datasets that can be used to train and tune models, build applications with _agents_ and the RAG (retrieval-augmented generation) pattern, etc.

However, much of the world's scientific knowledge is contained in PDFs, which can be challenging to parse for automation purposes. Text extraction is not too difficult, but extracting useful information from diagrams and tables is harder.

Recent advancements in tools such as [Docling](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/){:target="docling"} have enabled automated information extraction from PDF and other document types possible as never before. Our project is building the tools to do this extraction at scale to create new domain-specific datasets, starting with datasets for scientific disciplines. The project will begin by parsing the [Math-PDF](https://huggingface.co/datasets/PleIAs/Math-PDF){:target="math-pdf"} published by [PleIAs](https://pleias.fr){:target="pleias"}

These datasets will be hosted in the AI Alliance [Hugging Face organization](https://huggingface.co/aialliance){:target="hf-aia"} and they will be part of the Open Trusted Data Initiative [catalog](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/open-trusted-data-initiative/catalog/){:target="otdi"} of datasets.

Please join us! See our [contributing]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing) page for details.

> **TODO:** This is a work-in-progress website. More information coming soon.


### Version History

| Version  | Date       |
| :------- | :--------- |
| V0.1.0   | 2025-05-09 |

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>
